Add quality modes and management docs (#8732)
cvat-ai/cvat: site/content/en/docs/manual/advanced/analytics-and-monitoring/auto-qa.md

---
title: 'Automated QA, Review & Honeypots'
linkTitle: 'Automated QA'
weight: 1
description: 'Guidelines for assessing annotation quality in CVAT automatically'
---

In CVAT, it's possible to evaluate the quality of annotation through the creation
of a validation subset of images. To estimate the task quality, CVAT compares
all other jobs in the task against the established **Ground truth** job,
and calculates annotation quality based on this comparison.

> **Note** that quality estimation only supports

> > 2d tasks. It supports all the annotation types except 2d cuboids.

Reviewer: > It supports all the annotation types except 2d cuboids.

Probably this note can be deleted here since you've mentioned that inside `Comparisons`

Author: I want this information to be easily reachable for users so that they could immediately understand if it's available for their use case. I think, this variant provides better UX than if they needed to read all of this only to find out that something they need is not supported.

Reviewer: okay

and not for ordered sequences like videos.
- Tracks are not supported in such tasks.

The validation set can be managed after the task is created - annotations can be edited,
frames can be excluded and restored, and honeypot frames in the regular jobs can be changed.
However, it's not possible to select new validation frames after the task is created.
The Ground truth job created for this validation mode cannot be deleted.

Parameters:
- frame count per job (%) - the percent of job frames (segment size) to be **added** into each
annotation job from the validation set. Can be specified in the `Overhead per job` field.
- total frame count (%) - the percent of the task frames to be included into the validation set.
This value must result in at least `frame count per job` * `segment size` frames. Can be specified
in the `Total honeypots` field.

### Mode summary

Here is a brief comparison of the validation modes:

| **Aspect** | **Ground Truth** | **Honeypots** |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| When can be used | any time | at task creation only |

> | Frame management options | add, remove, exclude, restore | exclude, restore, change honeypots in jobs |

Author: It is done through gt job recreation. I removed these options from this line

---
title: 'Automated QA, Review & Honeypots'
linkTitle: 'Automated QA'
weight: 1
description: 'Guidelines for assessing annotation quality in CVAT automatically'
---

In CVAT, it's possible to evaluate the quality of annotation through the creation
of a validation subset of images. To estimate the task quality, CVAT compares
all other jobs in the task against the established **Ground truth** job,
and calculates annotation quality based on this comparison.

> **Note** that quality estimation only supports
> 2d tasks. It supports all the annotation types except 2d cuboids.

> **Note** that tracks are considered separate shapes
> and compared on a per-frame basis with other tracks and shapes.

> **Note** that quality estimation is currently available for tasks and jobs.

> > Quality estimation in projects is not implemented yet.

Author: Updated wording

![Ground truth job actions](/images/honeypot04.jpg)

### Import annotations

If you want to import annotations into the Ground truth job, do the following.

1. Open the task, and find the Ground truth job in the jobs list.
2. Click on three dots to open the menu.
3. From the menu, select **Import annotations**.
4. Select import format, and select file.
5. Click **OK**.

> **Note** that if there are imported annotations for the frames that exist in the task,
> but are not included in the **Ground truth** job, they will be ignored.
> This way, you don't need to worry about "cleaning up" your Ground truth
> annotations for the whole dataset before importing them.
> Importing annotations for the frames that are not known in the task still raises errors.

### Export annotations

To export annotations from the Ground Truth job, do the following.

1. Open the task, and find a job in the jobs list.
2. Click on three dots to open the menu.
3. From the menu, select **Export annotations**.

### Delete

To delete the Ground Truth job, do the following.

1. Open the task, and find the Ground Truth job in the jobs list.
2. Click on three dots to open the menu.

> 3. From the menu, select **Delete**.

Reviewer: Probably need to mention that GT job created with `Honeypots` validation mode can not be deleted.

Author: Added

     frame number is unchanged). <br> **Note** that if you want to use a
     custom frame sequence, you can do this using the server API instead,
     see [Job API create()](https://docs.cvat.ai/docs/api_sdk/sdk/reference/apis/jobs-api/#create).

4. Click **Submit**.

The **Ground truth** job will appear in the jobs list.

![Ground Truth job](/images/honeypot03.jpg)

5. Annotate frames and save your work or upload annotations.
6. Change the **Stage** of the job to **Acceptance**.
7. Change the **Status** of the job to **Completed**.

![Set job status](/images/honeypot10.jpg)

## Validation modes

Currently, there are 2 validation modes available for tasks: **Ground Truth** and **Honeypots**.
These names are often used interchangeably, but in CVAT they have some differences.
Both modes rely on the use of Ground Truth annotations in a task,
stored in a [Ground Truth job](#ground-truth-jobs), where they can be managed.

### Ground Truth

In this mode some of the task frames are selected into the validation set, represented as a
separate Ground Truth job. The regular annotation jobs in the task are not affected in any way.

> Ground Truth jobs can be created and removed at the task creation automatically or

Reviewer: What do you mean by the automatic removal of GT tasks? Is there any difference with GT jobs created in tasks with `gt_pool` validation mode?

Author: Fixed

manually, in any moment later. This validation mode is available for any tasks and annotations.

This is a flexible mode that can be enabled or disabled in any moment without any disruptions
to the annotation process.

#### Frame selection

This validation mode can use several frame selection methods.

> ##### Random (the default)

Author: Do you see any problems with using headers? They allow to add a direct link to the section. It's achievable without headers, of course. But if we use lists, there are formatting difficulties, if you have some nested lists.

> ##### Random (the default)

Reviewer: IMHO, such nested headings blend with the text
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/00b5691f-aa3f-40e5-aa58-ac8355eb877f)

Parameters:
- frame count (%) - the percent of the task frames to be used for validation

##### Random per job

This method selects frames into the validation set randomly from each annotation job in the task.

It solves one of the issues with the simple Random method that some of the jobs can get
no validation frames, which makes it impossible to estimate quality in such jobs. Note
that using this methods can result in increased total size of the validation set.

Parameters:
- frame count per job (%) - the percent of the job frames to be used for validation.
This method uses segment size of the task to select the same number of validation frames
in each job, if possible.

### Honeypots

In this mode some random frames of the task are selected into the validation set.
Then, validation frames are randomly mixed into regular annotation jobs. It can also be
called "Ground Truth pool", reflecting the way validation frames are used.
This mode can only be used at task creation and cannot be changed later.

The mode has some limitations on the compatible tasks:
- It's not possible to use it for an already existing task, the task has to be recreated.

> - This mode assumes random frame ordering, so it is only available for image annotation tasks a
> nd not for ordered sequences like videos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This mode assumes random frame ordering, so it is only available for image annotation tasks
  and not for ordered sequences like videos.
```

- Tracks are not supported in such tasks.

The validation set can be managed after the task is created - annotations can be edited,
frames can be excluded and restored, and honeypot frames in the regular jobs can be changed.
However, it's not possible to select new validation frames after the task is created.

> Parameters:

Reviewer: Consider using the same parameter names as used in UI: `Overhead per job` and `Total honeypots`

- frame count per job (%) - the percent of job frames (segment size) to be **added** into each

> annotation job from the validation set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  annotation job from the validation set
```

- total frame count (%) - the percent of the task frames to be included into the validation set.

> This value must result in at least `frame count per job` * `segment size` frames.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This value must result in at least `frame count per job` * `segment size` frames.
```

### Mode summary

Here is a brief summary of the validation modes:

| **Aspect**         | **Ground Truth**                                 | **Honeypots**                         |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| When can be used        | any time                          | at task creation only |
| Frame management options       | add, remove, exclude, restore     | exclude, restore, change honeypots in jobs |

> | Task frame requirements        | -                          | random ordering only |

Reviewer: video data is not supported with the `Honeypots` validation mode

Author: Is it possible to create a task with random ordering from a video?

Reviewer: I meant that probably it also should be mentioned in the summary table

The following window will open.
Hover over the **?** marks to understand what each field represents.

![Quality settings page](/images/honeypot08.jpg)

Annotation quality settings have the following parameters:

<!--lint disable maximum-line-length-->

| **Parameter** | **Description** |
| - | - |

> | _General reporting_ |

Reviewer: Consider splitting the table into several tables or refactoring it somehow since now it looks odd.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/18bba88b-2d8d-4f6c-9c02-a85b4a78b51b)

Author: Improved the look of the table:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/09283f2d-a9fd-436c-9677-a61ff273af69)

| | |
| _Group matching_ | |
| Compare groups | Enables or disables annotation group checks. This check will produce _Group mismatch_ warnings for grouped annotations, if the annotation groups do not match with the specified threshold. Each annotation within a group is expected to match with a corresponding annotation in a GT group. |
| Min group match threshold | Minimal IoU for groups to be considered matching, used when _Compare groups_ is enabled. |
| | |
| _Mask and polygon matching_ | |
| Check object visibility | Check for partially-covered annotations. Masks and polygons will be compared to each other. |
| Min visibility threshold | Minimal visible area percent of the mask annotations (polygons, masks). Used for reporting _Covered annotation_ warnings, useful with the _Check object visibility_ option. |
| Match only visible parts | Use only the visible part of the masks and polygons in comparisons. |

<!--lint enable maximum-line-length-->

## Comparisons

### Tracks

Tracks are split into separate shapes and compared on the per-frame basis with other tracks

> and shapes.

Reviewer: Probably they should come after `shapes`

  skeleton, and the resulting values are compared against the _Min similarity threshold_
  to determine whether the skeletons are matching. _Sigma_ corresponds to one
  from the [normal distribution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Normal_distribution).

- points - The OKS metric is used for each point group annotation. Same as for skeletons,
  _OKS Sigma_ determines relative point sizes. The _Point size base_ setting allows
  to configure whether points in point groups should use the group bounding box or the image space.
  Using image space for object size can be useful if you want to treat each point
  as a separate annotation.
- polylines - A pair of lines is considered matching if all the points of one line lie within
  a "hull" of the other one. The "hull" is determined as the area around the polyline, such as
  if the line had some "thickness". For example, the black polyline can have a hull shown in
  the green color:

  ![Polyline thickness and hull](/images/quality_comparison_polylines1.png)

  The line thickness can be configured via the _Relative thickness_ setting.
  The value is relative to the image side and determines a half of the hull width.

> - ovals - IoU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ellipses - IoU, described in more detail above.
```

Once the quality estimation is [enabled in a task](#configuring-quality-estimation)
and the Ground Truth job is configured, quality analytics becomes available
for the task and its jobs.

By default, CVAT computes quality metrics automatically at regular intervals.

> **Note** that the process of quality calculation may take up to several hours, depending on
> the amount of data and labeled objects, and is **not updated immediately** after task updates.

It you want request quality metrics update, you can do this by pressing the **Refresh** button
on the task **Quality Management** > **Analytics** page.

![Quality Analytics page - refresh button](/images/honeypot11.jpg)

Once quality metrics are computed, they are available for detailed review on this page.
Conflicts can be reviewed in the [Review mode of jobs](#reviewing-gt-conflicts).
A job must have at least 1 validation frame (shown in the **Frame intersection** column) to
be included in quality computation.

### Analytics page contents

The Analytics page has the following elements:

![Quality Analytics page](/images/honeypot05.jpg)

<!--lint disable maximum-line-length-->

| Field | Description |
| - | - |

> | Mean annotation quality | Displays the average quality of annotations, which includes: counts of the accurate annotations, total task annotations, and ground truth annotations, accuracy, precision, and recall. The currently selected _Target metric_ is displayed as the primary score |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Mean annotation quality | Displays the average quality of annotations, which includes: counts of the accurate annotations, total task annotations, ground truth annotations, accuracy, precision, and recall. The currently selected _Target metric_ is displayed as the primary score. |
```
